Add tutorial on creating jira issues from enforce events (#623)
chainguard-dev/edu: content/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/cloudevents/create-jira-issues/index.md

---
title: "Create Jira Issues from Enforce CloudEvents"
type: "article"
description: "Creating Jira Issues from Enforce CloudEvents"
date: 2023-04-21T15:22:20+01:00
lastmod: 2023-04-21T15:22:20+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Enforce", "Product", "CloudEvents"]
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "cloudevents"
weight: 10
toc: true
---

> _This documentation is related to Chainguard Enforce. You can request access to the product by selecting **Chainguard Enforce** on the [inquiry form](https://www.chainguard.dev/contact?utm_source=docs)._

> Chainguard Enforce for Kubernetes can send CloudEvents as webhook requests that you can subscribe to and use to do things like generate alerts, create Jira issues, post messages to Slack channels, and more. This tutorial is meant to serve as a companion to the [Enforce Events jira-issue-opener](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/enforce-events/tree/main/jira-issue-opener) example application. It will guide you through creating and deploying a Google Cloud Run service that will open new Jira issues for Enforce policy change events.

Author: ```suggestion
Chainguard Enforce for Kubernetes can send CloudEvents as webhook requests that you can subscribe to and use to do things like generate alerts, create Jira issues, post messages to Slack channels, and more. This tutorial is meant to serve as a companion to the [Enforce Events jira-issue-opener](https://github.com/chainguard-dev/enforce-events/tree/main/jira-issue-opener) example application. It will guide you through creating and deploying a Google Cloud Run service that will open new Jira issues when you apply an Enforce policy that would result in a policy violation if you enabled Enforce on a namespace.
```

> You can also opt to run the example application elsewhere. As long as it is publicly accessible to the [Enforce CIDR network ranges](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-kubernetes/network-requirements/#cidr-ranges), you will be able to receive CloudEvents and create Jira issues with the example application. If you opt to deploy the demo outside of Cloud Run, you can skip to the [Subscribing to Enforce CloudEvents](#subscribing-to-enforce-cloudevents) section, provided you know the publicly accessible URL to your deployed instance of the demo.

Author: ```suggestion
You can also opt to run the example application elsewhere. As long as it is publicly accessible to the [Enforce CIDR network ranges](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/reference/network-requirements/), you will be able to receive CloudEvents and create Jira issues with the example application. If you opt to deploy the demo outside of Cloud Run, you can skip to the [Subscribing to Chainguard Enforce CloudEvents](#subscribing-to-chainguard-enforce-cloudevents) section, provided you know the publicly accessible URL to your deployed instance of the demo.
```

## Prerequisites

> To follow along with this guide, it is assumed that you have a Kubernetes cluster with Chainguard Enforce enabled. If you need to set this up, follow our [Getting Started](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-kubernetes/chainguard-enforce-user-onboarding/) guide to create a local [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster that you can use for experimentation.

Author: ```suggestion
To follow along with this guide, it is assumed that you have a Kubernetes cluster with Chainguard Enforce enabled. If you need to set this up, follow our [Getting Started](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-user-onboarding/#step-3--prepare-kubernetes-cluster) guide to create a local [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster that you can use for experimentation.
```

You will also need:

* The [`gcloud` CLI](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install) and a Google Cloud account if you choose to run the application using Cloud Run.
* `terraform` to configure a Google Cloud service account, IAM permissions, and deploy the Cloud Run service. If you are running the application elsewhere, you can ignore this requirement.
* An [Atlassian API Token](https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens). Note that this guide assumes you are using the cloud version of Jira.
* `chainctl` in order to create a subscription webhook endpoint.

> * An [Enforce or Sigstore policy](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/policies/chainguard-enforce-policy-examples/) and a Kubernetes namespace that is configured with the `policy.sigstore.dev/include=true` label to use Enforce for admission control.

Author: ```suggestion
* An [Enforce or Sigstore policy](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/policies/chainguard-enforce-policy-examples/) and a Kubernetes namespace that you can use to test Enforce's admission control webhook.
```

> * An [Enforce or Sigstore policy](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-kubernetes/chainguard-enforce-policy-examples/) and a Kubernetes namespace that is configured with the `policy.sigstore.dev/include=true` label to use Enforce for admission control.

Author: ```suggestion
* An [Enforce or Sigstore policy](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/policies/chainguard-enforce-policy-examples/) and a Kubernetes namespace that is configured with the `policy.sigstore.dev/include=true` label to use Enforce for admission control.
```

EOF
```

Apply it using `chainctl`:

```
chainctl policies apply \
  -f sample-policy.yaml --group=<your chainguard group>
```

Depending on your Kubernetes cluster, applying the policy may generate multiple Jira issues. For example, if you are using `kind`, the control plane images are not signed and should create issues.

Once the policy is created, check the logs of your [Cloud Run deployment](https://console.cloud.google.com/logs/query;query=resource.type%3D%22cloud_run_revision%22%0Aresource.labels.service_name%3D%22enforce-events-jira-iss-opener%22%0AtextPayload:%20%22Opened%20issue%22;timeRange=PT4H). You may need to edit the `service_name` portion of the URL if your service is called something different from `enforce-events-jira-iss-opener`.

There should be log entries corresponding to new Jira issues that the demo application created for you:

![Screenshot of logs in Google Log Explorer showing Opened issue entries](google-cloud-logs.png)

Now visit your Jira project's page and look for the issues. A new issue for the sample policy should look like the following:

![Screenshot of a Jira issue created using the demo application](jira-issue.png)

## Learn More

> Now that you've deployed and tested creating issues with the demo application, you can continue to develop it to create issues for other Enforce event types. See our [Chainguard Enforce Events](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/chainguard-enforce-kubernetes/chainguard-enforce-events/) page for a complete reference of event types that Enforce emits.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you've deployed and tested creating issues with the demo application, you can continue to develop it to create issues for other Enforce event types. See our [Chainguard Enforce Events](/chainguard/chainguard-enforce/reference/events/) page for a complete reference of event types that Enforce emits.
```
